# Stripe-Case-Study

An appropriate analysis and account of financial services and softare company, Stripe. 

## Origins and Overview

Stripe, a payment processing platform, allows businesses to accept many different forms of online payment through automated reconciliation. Through the organisation’s dominant services, the company operates as a unicorn primarily functioning in the Payments/Bidding Fintech Domain. However, Stripe offers additional services within other Fintech Domains regarding Capital Investment, Wealth Management, Enterprise Solutions et al. 

Incepted in 2009, in Palo Alto, California and was initiated by brothers, Patrick and John Collison. Both founders were previously involved in pioneering the creation of Auctomatic, a web-based solution platform to automate online auctions, which was acquired by Live Current Media for 5M in 2008. However, this venture into the Fintech Domain led to the creation of Stripe, when the pair felt ‘frustrated after the difficult payment system’ existing at the time for B2B operations. The process involved creating a merchant account, which accepted multiple credit cards (Although constrcited to more commonly used credit cards), a 5 working-day delay, and large transaction fees. Thus, Stripe's purpose was evident. Stripe offered an easy setup system, as the system was usable on any website or app, removing the tiresome process existing at the time, as well as a simple and user friendly interface. 

In its early days, the start-up’s main source of funding came from the contributions of many elite entrepreneurs and well-attributed companies, such as the Silicon Valley merchants Sequoia Capital, SV Angel, Andreessen Horowitz, and Micheal Moritz and business magnate Elon Musk. Notable contributors also include Paul Graham’s YCombinator, due to his involvement with previous work alongside Patrick and John. The founder, Peter Thiel, of PayPal, raised 2M in funding during Stripe’s initial introductory and growth. The company later moved in 2012 to San Francisco, and then a year later in March 2013, made it's first aquisition... aquiring Kickoff, a chat and task-management application, with the ability to share tasks between users. From June 1st 2021, Crunchbase, an open database of businesses, recorded that $2.2 billion has been raised by 39 investors, as well as $600 million of new equity through the contributions of Allianz, AXA and Ireland’s National Treasury Management Agency.


## Business Activities

Stripe, as previously mentioned, functions as a multi functional payment service provider, allowing business owners to accept various payment methods, accounting for seven major payment methods, such as credit and debit cards, subscription based payment and pay later services to name a few. Therefore, its suitable to suggest that Stripe’s business model is trying to solve a B2B issue to effectively deliver small businesses, corporations and business owners with the ability to accept payments without the complicated processes, of which many business owners dont have the required skills to perform. Which in the case of Stripe and the entity's business model, the service has been made successful through the innovative operations society and businesses have built in the subject of technology, during Stripe's lifetime, the business have been involved in the evolution of technology for the consumer, equating to mass increases in start-ups and businesses as a whole. Therefore, Stripe caters to a very large market size, accounting for 3.1 million active websites currently utilising Stripe, most notably Amazon and Airbnb. The key to Stripe’s unmatched success in the respective market, is due to the use of competitive pricing, as well as transparent and predictable flat rates, with renowned security and protection, and speedy payment processing. For the user, Stripe presents an easy-to-use platform, whose financial and payment information is kept in a gateway, which is encrypted into coded data. Stripe stands atop of their competitors due to the continuous innovation and market growth. 

According to Stripe Software Engineer, Matt Basta, the technology used is 'a multiple language coded system, with JavaScript and Ruby most commonly used'. The incorporation of code and continuous integration systems aid in creating a user-friendly platform and faster processing speeds. An API System is assimilated to help easily transfer data from the provider, the processes are then organised into the Stripe command-line interface (CLI), for customers to interact with Stripe through the Terminal or other command line interface systems. However, Stripe offers 'no-code' options like Payment Links and Invoicing as well. 

Patrick, explains on [Quora](https://www.quora.com/Why-did-Stripe-choose-to-use-Ruby-for-its-backend-language), that Ruby offers a free framework, providing a cost-effective solution. Ruby is based on the seperation of applications into three main logical components, the model, view, and controller which in-turn divide business data and presentation details for the end-user. The coded system provides users to add and edit exisiting code to find solutions and added additions to their business. However, Ruby operates to help backened services, such as Stripe.com, Dashboard, Stripe API et al. Nonetheless, Stripe's front-end services are primarily dominated by Javascript, providing a fast, lightweight and thorough programming language, serving the purpose to 'create efficient network-centric applications.' JavaScript has the ability to be used on any web page, and the structure of language is moderately easy to learn.


## Landscape

Stripe, largely operates as a banking-as-a-service API (application programming interface) within the financial sector, embedding financial services within an online platform to commercial and retail consumers. The financial sector's use of Fintech appplications came into prominence due to the reduction of retail banking, which has allowed continuous innovation in the sector for small and medium business owners, removing the need for traditional branch banking and allowing the evolution of E-banking, with lower cost to consumers, and greater ability to take control of their own finances. Although, in today’s society, banking has been digitised and tweaked over the years in order to satisfy consumer demands, wants and needs. However, common banking practises of today, were entirely non-existent only a century ago. From Adam’s Smith’s creation of modern banking, which embraced compeitition and the introduction of banknotes. The notion of modern day banking, sadly, lasted very shortly, with large corporations gaining unrivalled power. Thus, in order for local and national Governments to monitor banking activity, Federal Reserve Banking systems, which assisted in the regulation of the banking system and stock market. Soon, Banking systems branched their communication and operations to cater to a larger demographic and establish more proficient reforms and technology. During the 90’s and early 2000’s, banking technology boomed, due to the presence of the dot-com bubble, which introduced rapid advancements in growth and the adoption of the internet, through the excessive speculation of the web-based companies. Credit cards and mobile apps swiftly introduced electronic payments. Going forward, the changes made through the innovative processes of payment and banking systems provided the introduction of Fintech. Over the last 5-10 years the growth of Fintech has evolved into a worldwide revolution in regard to traditional banking. Apps and websites now commonly replaced branches, and online account management. Due to increased competition within the financial sector, from competitors such as Apple and the initiation of cryptocurrencies and the blockchain, has allowed for individual consumers to take control of their assets without the need to pay high flat rates and fees. Major competitors within the respective sector include Apple, Square, PayPal and Amazon Payments. 

## Results

Stripe global success has continued to impact the financial sector and current stakeholders within the industry, due to Stripe’s core strategy and business model to profitably operate. Stripe offers low-cost services to their customers, charging 2.9% plus $0.30 per successful card charge through the site. Accompanied with the development of a suite of resources to create complex billing systems into a simplistic display for the user. Furthermore, from the information gathered from [IDC’s Business Valuation](https://stripe.com/en-au/reports/idc-whitepaper-2018) of the Stripe Payment Platform; recorded that user’s experienced 6.7% higher revenue, 59% higher developer productivity, a 24% decrease in costs of operating online payment platforms, and an 81% reduction in unplanned outages. This unsurpassed quality and delivery of operations has led Stripe to capture 16.95% market share in the Payment and Processing sector. According to Datanyze, an 'ethically sourced business information' extension, Stripe hold’s second place in regard to market share falling behind PayPal, who occupies 47.01% market share. 

Nonetheless, in order to accurately document and record Stripe’s success in the Payments and Processing Fintech Domain, three main metrics known as KPI’s, which are key performance indicators that measures different aspects of the payment system must be analysed. The first metric is the Payment Conversion Rate, which quantifies the amount of transactions which were declined. In 2017, Stripe had accounted for 5.3% of transactions had failed. The second KPI reflects the annual gross transaction volume exceed $300 billion in 2020 alone. The final KPI which will be used is the overall revenue growth rate, for-which equates to a 393% increase from $1.5 billion to $7.4 billion respectively (see image 2.). To compare Stripe’s performance relative to its competitors in the domain, both PayPal and Square. Zacks Investment Research recorded PayPal had accounted for 9% of transactions had failed, and PayPals 2021 Annal Report identified the annual gross transaction volume of $936 billion. Thus, PayPal’s revenue growth increased by 18.26% from 2020, to account for $25.371 billion. Furthemore, due to Square’s policy which does not allow merchants to accept payments upwards of $50,000, it is unreasonable to compare the Payment Conversion Rate, thus the annual gross transaction volume will be accounted for, which resulted in $45.4 billion in 2021. Additionally, Square’s overall revenue growth rate totalled a 25.74% increase which came in at $3.8 billion. Therefore, based on the core metrics documented, it is evident to suggest that Stripe are successfully operating, as they have been able to maintain growth throughout its life cycle, and accumulates respective annual growth, as well as offering superior services, in relation to Square’s inability to accept large amounts of capital.

## Recommendations

Although Stripe operates within many branches of the financial sector, an advisable recommendation for the organisation to potentially utilise is an extension of the [Stripe JS program](), which is a JavaScript library Stripe users can wire into the checkout system to handle credit card information. Stripe JS employs the collection of sensitive payment details using customisable Stripe Elements and tokenises customer information for security and protection purposes. However, Stripe JS is only operational within the US, thus disregarding the opportunity for the globalisation of the service, which may provide greater market share and annual profits. Stripe which is currently functioning in 46 countries, have the ability to expand, with immense possibilities for developing nations like India, who hold immense opportunity due to its large customer base. Offering Stripe JS globally, will benefit all scopes of the Stripe corporation, as the company will capture larger profits, and have the ability to expand its services and brand to other markets. The venture would be cost-effective, and would not need additional services to utilise as it has already been incorporated into the US market. Thus, the extension of Stripe JS’ market is appropriate to produce greater funding, sales and operations globally. However, due to the various legalisations and regulations currently exisiting in each country, Stripe will have to alternate and change particular processes which do not adhere to the policies certain governments impose. Nonetheless, it is evident that providing Stripe JS to a greater number of consumer’s is an astute deliberation.
